# NuGetPackageVersionAnalyser

This utility applet analyzes the versions of NuGet packages used in a .NET solution and generates a report in Excel format.

## Features

- Issues the following command `dotnet list package --include-transitive`
to get the required information.
- Lists all NuGet packages used in the solution.
- Packages are sorted first by whether they are direct or transitive and then alphabetically by package name.
- Output can be generated in two ways:
  - An Excel report containing a list of packages in a very similar format to that generated by directly issuing the command, with the only difference that some information that appears as section headers in the raw output are moved into columns in the Excel worksheet.  Refer to the examples at the end of this file for more detailed information.
  - An Excel report that lists all projects in the solution as column headings.  A distinct list of NuGet packages is used as row labels.  They are sorted first by whether they are direct or transitive and then alphabetically by package name.  The cells contain the version of the package used in the corresponding project.  If a package is not used in a project, the cell is left empty.

## Requirements

- .NET 8.0 SDK
- Visual Studio 2022

## Usage

1. Clone the repository.
2. Open the solution in Visual Studio.
3. Build the solution.
4. Run the application and provide the path to your .NET solution folder.
5. The application can of course also be built and installed somewhere in the PATH so that it can be executed as a command line utility.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.